As I mentioned in the last lecture, we could protect our routes like this but this is not really a scalable
way, we would have to add it to every route which should be protected, to every controller action.
So instead I want to create my own middleware which I can add on every route that should be protected
and for this, I'll first of all create a brand new folder in my project here.
So in the root of the project, I'll add a middleware folder, you could name this however you want, it doesn't have
to be named middleware. In there
I'll add an isauth.js file and you can also name that file however you want and I will simply export a function
here,
a typical middleware function where you get request, response and next
and then you execute some code.
So I want to export such a function here.
Now in that function, I'll simply implement the code
I showed you in the last lecture,
so I check if we are not logged in
and if that is the case, then I will return res redirect login like that, otherwise I'll call next
because otherwise I want to allow the request to continue to whichever route the request wanted to go
to.
Now this is the same logic as before but it's wrapped in a middleware,
now we can go to the routes folder and there, you can actually add as many handlers for any route you
want
and the request will be funneled through them from left to right.
This means that in here, I can now import my isAuth middleware by requiring it from my middleware folder,
isAuth like this
and isAuth can now simply be added as an argument to get
and you can add as many arguments as you want, as many handlers as you want therefore
and as I mentioned, they will be parsed from left to right,
the request will travel through them from left to right.
So the request which reaches get product goes into that isAuth middleware first and in the isAuth middleware,
we might be redirecting and we don't call next,
hence the request would never continue to that controller action
but if we make it past the if check here in the middleware, we do call next,
so the next middleware in line will be called and the next middleware in line would be our get add product
controller action here.
And this means that we can now add
this isAuth middleware to all the routes here because these routes actually all require authentication
and in the shop.js
file,
there also are some routes that should be protected,
so I'll import isAuth here too by requiring it from the middleware folder, like this
and then there too, I want to protect get cart because we need to be authenticated to have a cart,
I will protect post cart, I will protect deleting a cart item, posting an order and viewing the orders,
so all that is protected with the help of isAuth.
So now this means that if you are not logged in, you actually can't access these routes.
I am not logged in here,
now let me show this to you and let me logout
and now I'll try to access admin add product and you see I end up on the login page and the same
if I try to access cart, I end up on the login page. I can visit products and the details and so on but
I can't visit the rest.
So now we have route protection in place and we don't just hide the menu items here but we really check
the authentication status with the help of the session on the server side and there, the user has no way
of manipulating it,
so now we ensure that some routes, some methods are only available to logged in users.
And indeed if I do login again, I can of course add a new book here for example with that same image
we reused a couple of times but it's still new.
So let's add this, this works.
So all of that can be done,
all of that is supported here,
you see we can edit a product,
we can also delete a product if we want to,
this all works
but we protect it against unauthenticated access.